# Biostatistics Final Project
**Analysis/Graphs was done in Rstudio

The purpose of this study was to find major sources of stress among students at Santa Clara University. College students are particularly prone to stress due to rigorous classes, participation in clubs, leadership positions, varying academic schools and majors, affiliation with a fraternity or sorority, and maintaining relationships.

Our main question is, what variables increase stress among SCU students? To answer this, we compared the school that one is in to the number of units being taken, relationship status to stress level, gender to hours spent studying, gender to school, school year to leadership position, leadership position to stress level, stress level to GPA, stress level to number of units taken, number of units and GPA to stress level, in a fraternity/sorority to GPA, and finally, school to year to GPA.

##Methods:
The first step in our research was to look into the common factors that affect people’s stress levels. We then discussed which extracurricular activities, specific to college students, that could also create stress. With the knowledge of common stress factors and questions about students’ involvements, we created a google survey form. For our survey design we made sure to include a wide variety of questions. The ordering of the questions were optimized in order to prevent bias of how stressful the individual was at the time. We accomplished this by asking individuals their stress level in the earlier parts of the survey and then proceeded to ask questions that could have potentially provoked stress such as questions pertaining to relationships, clubs, and number of units. We designed our questions to give us qualitative and quantitative data. We did this to enable us to perform a multitude of different tests to analyze our data. 

##Results:
We found that women have higher stress levels compared to men. Additionally, we found that there are about twice as many females in the School of Arts and Sciences compared to males, and there are approximately 3.5 times the number of males in the School of Engineering compared to females. Students in the school of Arts and Sciences and the school of Business had 0.24 higher GPA than students in the school of Engineering. Junior and seniors are significantly more likely to hold leadership positions compared to freshman and there is a significant difference in stress levels and whether or not students hold leadership positions. Lastly, our data found that students in our sample take 2 less units than the expected mean of 19 units. 

